>> Speaker 1: So can you use
webpack-dev-server for server side
development, or is it only client side?
>> Sean Larkin: Heck yes, you can.
Well, okay, so you can use it,
but you actually use a piece
that abstracts it called
webpack-dev-middleware.
So webpack-dev-server is just made up
of webpack-dev-middleware and express.
And it's essentially an express plugin.
So you can actually,
we have the package itself standalone,
so I believe it's under webpack.
But you can just do npm install,
webpack-dev-middleware, and
you add it to your express application,
just like any other plugin.
The only difference is you're gonna
pass your config object to it and
require your config manually
cuz there's no CLI around it.
And you just add that as part of your
dev middleware plugin configuration
option.
>> Sean Larkin: But that's really nice cuz
once you have things like hot module
replacement on the server side, it's like.
So nice, I love that.
>> Sean Larkin: And it's great for
API developments,
like reloading your server instantly.
I used to write Ruby with Sinatra for
APIs,
and it would just pain me how much I'd
have to kill it, start up webrick again.
It's like the little things
which provide a lot of value.
>> Speaker 1: Is there a way to utilize
the HTML webpack plugin
with multiple templates?
And if it is possible to have it check
all the HTML files in a certain folder
automatically instead of having to
define a new HTML webpack plugin every
single time?
>> Sean Larkin: So yes and no, so for
each instance, so
it sounds like this person has
a multi-page app architecture,
I'm guessing.
And it gets a little bit more complicated,
where yes,
you do actually have to have
a new instance of this plugin.
But you can just pass the template a path,
so
much that I wrote a plugin
while I was at Mutual of Omaha.
Now they're maintaining it still, so
I don't know if they've gotten it
to webpack for compatible yet.
Github.com, so
there is actually an open source plugin,
mutualofomaha/multipage-webpack-plugin.
And this kind of aims to simplify
kind of what they're experiencing,
where essentially,
>> Sean Larkin: Yeah,
it looks like it hasn't updated yet
to webpack 4.
But I was working in a Laravel shop,
Laravel PHP, and so
they had lots of crazy nested folder
conventions, it's so ridiculous.
But essentially, we wanted to make a new
entry point, and we actually took and
compiled it to a custom twig template.
And so that's just
the html-webpack-plugin capability.
But all we're doing here is, here's
kind of what some of the underlying.
What you could do if you didn't wanna use
this plugin is you could literally just
access your entries, and
then for each entry,
create a new instance of the plugin.
And you just have to make sure that
you're filtering down what chunks
html-webpack-plugin is
injecting into the file, right?
Because if you had a multi-page app,
and you have multiple entry points,
when you have multiple entry points,
those are meant to be one per page.
And so you wouldn't want
html-webpack-plugin to inject them all
into each template, you would just want
the one you need for each template.
So yes, there is a way to do it.
It's not as eloquent.
And that's kind of the motivation for
creating this plugin.
You can look in the examples.
Essentially, the simplest example would
just look at the three entry points.
And then it just generates,
>> Sean Larkin: Let's see,
simple, and the config,
what's nice is all you'd have to do is
pass this in as your configuration.
So you could look at that, take a look,
maybe your first open source opportunity
to convert it to v4 [LAUGH].
I know the devs at Mutual,
so they're helpful.
Yes?
>> Speaker 1: Are there situations where
webpack, the process runs into
an out of memory error, and
where would you capture that exception?
>> Sean Larkin: So essentially,
yeah, when you think about in just
programmatic complexity, right,
so, webpack has to create an entire
graph of all of your source files.
And store it in memory before
it creates a bundle, right?
So who here has taken computer science or
knows big o complexity?
Anybody?
Okay, so your space complexity for
webpack, or webpack space complexity,
will be linear in terms of how
many modules you have in your app.
So you will end up consuming more and
more memory because it needs more memory.
So if it's for a production build and
it's just a build and
not dev server, I would say
increasing the memory limit for Node.
And Airbnb has gone all the way up to,
they have a 32 gig.
32 GIGs are allocated to Node,
because they're just so huge.
But we have some caching for webpack 5.
We have a whole caching store
that's aiming to solve this.
So that would be one way to cache it.
The other one would be,
if you're seeing it in webpack-dev-server,
then it might be a memory leak.
Or you might be doing
something like adding a hash,
but still doing a dev server.
If you're creating hash in memory that's
unique every time you change a file,
then it's keeping all of
that in memory over time.
And so
it could just be you're using dev-server,
but using prog features like hashing.
And so you should probably turn
that off for your dev mode.